vegans are a group of people who know
the change they want to make in the
world and they even know how they want
to make it and yet we are so you know
fractious and fragmentary we're so
divided into mutually hostile camps that
it's seemingly impossible to get five
people together who agree on these basic
principles and who can get a movement
going the same way those movements to
you know make seatbelts mandatory got
going the same way Mothers Against Drunk
Driving got going people had to set
aside their differences I'm reaching out
to these people again and again because
fundamentally my reason for being on
YouTube is to use YouTube as a platform
to organize that kind of real world
political activism for three years now
I've been asking people so what do you
want to do what are you willing to do to
make a positive change the future the
vegan movement in the next five years
right I've been asked that question for
three years now so I'm running out of
time before those are up and I
have to face up the reality that
although you know the profound fissures
within veganism that exist they should
create addressed in debate I don't even
have people to debate with about us yen
hey guys um broadcasting today has been
in a word impossible we announced that
we were gonna do the broadcast just 24
hours in advance from an airport the
airport had a fabulous wireless
connection but it turns out our hotel
room did not we got out and scrambled
and this is being reported right now
from a cafe they're just closing down
the cafe coffee shops tonight you might
hear some of the dishes going to the
dishwasher I can hear them clearing off
dishes so I had a lot to say in today's
broadcast and the broadcast is being cut
short be that as it may I wanted to say
a few words about the political purpose
of my youtube channel itself and of why
I'm on patreon you can click the link
below this video and join patreon for
$1.00 right now I openly discuss my
efforts on patreon as a failure
and several other people when patreon
supporters wrote back to me saying well
come on you shouldn't talk about it as a
failure especially given that it's only
a failure relative to a preconceived
goal you established so fully one year
ago now I talked about that on YouTube I
my feeling my belief my conviction is
that the exact opposite I think it's
really important to set goals and then
be honest with yourself when you fall
short or when you exceed them right so I
just went to China in order to learn
Chinese
how much Chinese did I learn in seven
months relative to my goal how much did
I accomplish how much could have
accomplished etc I think those are
really important things to be honest
yourself about and any goal you miss of
course is relative to some standard a
goal is relative to a goal post whether
you do well or poorly at something of
course relies in part on definitions
that have your own selection of your own
election and the December 3rd on cold
hard facts reality like if you flunk out
of chemistry in university that's not a
goal post you set for yourself they're
gonna be standards like that you you
come up against two but sure in this
case I openly talked about goals and
aspirations I had for the channel and
many of those I haven't reached and now
there are things I want to do that I
can't do so I was emailing people
earlier today and talking to people on
Twitter about vegan conferences vegan
political events I could attend or I
would like to attend that is exactly the
sort of thing I could do if I was making
$400 a month on patreon and I'm not so I
can't and I won't maybe that's an
oversimplification but sure I'm
massively limited in terms of what I can
do now coming back to Canada from China
in terms of real world vegan activism
we're both right now unemployed I just
finished doing a one-year contract as a
university professor in China during
that time I did earn more money than I
spent and I did have a bunch of crazy
expenditures like flying from China to
France to see my daughter but be that as
it may I basically saved up five
thousand US dollars during that time
I've now spent a bit of that too because
on the trip back from China had various
misadventures so significant amount of
that guts met up and my father's death
my father left me a gift legally
speaking it wasn't
evidence it was a gift at the time of
his death that was only twenty five
thousand dollars Canadian which is not
enough money to do anything except stave
off poverty right now during this time
of transition when I get back from China
to Canada look for a new job
look to enroll in school again rent an
apartment which we've just done so
that's what's going on with us so yes
the money matters and the the donations
of lack of donations are gonna have
real-world outcomes one of the other
obvious ones you saw I was just talking
to my mom about this my mom was actually
really hyped to see me published
children's storybook I wrote I wrote the
storybook in Chinese it's just searched
the channel for the word storybook and
you'll find what I'm talking about but I
wrote a story in Chinese I translated
the Chinese into English other people
translated it into Japanese German
Russia and a few other languages we got
Dutch coming up next Dutch translation
is coming now um it's a great story
starving praising my own work here but
it's a great story for children and for
parents to sit down and read to their
children that deals with some of the
core ethical questions if he can ISM but
in a way that's not gross or
inappropriate I would love to have that
Illustrated and published and on store
shelves and the reason why that hasn't
happened yet now he's mine now over the
last year there were the reasons my
girlfriend already knows that's my
girlfriend sitting off-camera we worked
with an artist who flaked out that was
the other thing that happened so it
could money today is the reason why it's
not happening now I inherited a lot less
money than I thought I would I thought I
get fifty thousand plus I thought 50
thousand 50 thousand it changes them
with that and I didn't about 21 thousand
Canadian which is I think less than
20,000 u.s. and I have a four-year-old
daughter I have responsibilities in life
and I got to worry about getting myself
my next job but yeah I wish I had the
financial margin or security to just get
that book Illustrated and published and
I don't and the artist I had before who
flaked out on us keeping all the way
wheel I really thought that if we work
with her we could do like a crowdfunding
Kickstarter type thing and get it
rolling without too much money upfront I
had confidence in that but she flaked
out what's at the now
so look um I would like to actually read
out and discuss the message that is
posted as text to patron I paint posted
a sort of short essay which is a long
discussion of what's been going on with
this YouTube channel about what the
political aspirations the YouTube
channel are etc etc I mean it's not
about what I see is the future of this
YouTube channel it's about what the
future of this channel isn't you know
it's about the doors that have been
closed and the failures and then what
direction that funnels us into in terms
of our lives and aspirations how we're
gonna move forward as vegan activists
and how we're gonna move forward in
terms of using this platform using the
internet generally try to make something
positive happen right um
I want to say for the purposes of this
video again anyway you can click on and
read that article that's a separate
thing I've reached out to and tried to
collaborate with so many people from so
many different walks of life because as
a used to emphasising videos going back
to years and more I think the
fundamental unit of political
organization is having a group of maybe
just 10 people who can really work
together create a foundation engage in
lobbying make something happen in Canada
that's partly even just for legal
reasons you got to get people together
who can sign as the signatories to a
board to create a charity clearly legal
entity start receiving donations start
lobbying start making things happen you
need that group of friends five or ten
people who trust each other and can sign
checks for the same bank account and
I've if someone asked me fundamentally
why did I ever become friends with
Charles Marlow formally known as the
vegan cheetah
that's why why did I ever reach out to
an interview the light twins or I was
interviewed by the white Twins whatever
we had a conversation we had one one
long great podcast still worth listening
to my opinion you know and those guys
later kind of went crazy and break it
broke up and they've gotten into all
this strange spiritual stuff why did I
meet not interact these people why did I
ever reach out to someone like Kenya
mania each one why did every try to
cooperate with someone like vegan gains
or even worse ask yourself I mean each
of these people is deeply flawed in a
different
a very different way you know some
politically some religiously or
spiritually or what-have-you
I'm reaching out to these people again
and again because fundamentally my
reason for being on YouTube is to use
YouTube as a platform to organize that
kind of real world political activism
right and when I'm talking to somebody
like the light twins of course maybe I'm
gonna recruit them we're talking some
lakenya maybe I'm gonna be able to
really collaborate with them maybe not
but maybe even by reaching out to them
positively they're gonna introduce me to
the person I can really work with I can
really make something happen with right
that's surviving that's good practice in
life whether it's business or politics
what have you so done that again and
again and again for about three years
now I think I used to talk about it more
I just don't talk about anymore cuz I
don't like repeating the same message a
huge move on to other to other topics
but here I am now three years into this
and I don't have that circle of ten
people I don't have that circle of five
people I don't even feel like I have
three people I feel like I'm totally
alone aside from my girlfriend
but yeah of course my girlfriend counts
but there's a sense our relationship is
so close that it can't be counted as a
political one and I guess it can't be
you can't be counted as a colleague
quite because you're you're more or less
than a colleague both right um but sure
so I'm not all alone I have my
girlfriend with me and she'd love to do
any of this stuff this activism but
that's all of God so that is a failure
yes failure is relative to goals use of
herself or forego posts or definitions
yourself yourself but I think it's
really important to set and recognize
success and failures when I you know
whether they're financial aspirational
political or otherwise so I still say
this stuff to people recently get
someone who was in the audience just now
where the guy in called truth grab and
other people freaked out about that
including quests other people were
really surprised when I was talking to
him and I found out that he wasn't vegan
I said to him we're looking at the only
reason I'm here is to meet other vegans
and try to get organized right try to
work for the future of the other vegan
movement I'm just keeping it real you
know so and people were meeting in that
context people were shocked that I was
like
I've got I've got no reason to talk to
you you know if you're not vegan if
you're not part of the future this
movement if you're not part of the
solution I don't really even care if
you're part of the problem you know this
is this is not when I'm on line four so
another quip to quote myself that struck
me today earlier today we listened back
to a video I made I don't know long
enough ago that I've forgotten all about
it which was my response to Justin
Peterson Jordan Peterson thinks that's
what she's here for
Jordan Peterson where I commented it's a
really interesting video team honesty I
had forgotten what I said in that video
to such an extent that I found it really
interesting and surprising but I
commented you know vegans are a group of
people who know the change they want to
make in the world and they even know how
they want to make it and yet we are so
you know fractious and fragmentary we're
so divided into mutually hostile camps
that it's seemingly impossible to get
five people together who agree on these
basic principles and who can get a
movement going the same way those
movements to you know make seatbelts
mandatory got going the same way Mothers
Against Drunk Driving got going people
had to set aside the differences I'm
sure people got some people probably got
involved in Mothers Against Drunk
Driving because they were just opposed
to people during alcohol for religious
reasons and other people got involved
because they had a relative who died in
a car crash and at a strong emotional
reason there would have been all kinds
of diverse motives brought together by
the mission statement of Mothers Against
Drunk Driving any of these examples I
use different movements to try to get
rid of cigarette smoking educate people
about cigarettes causing cancer etc etc
right we have that hurdle to get over
and some of us are only in this movement
because of the heart attacks and some of
us are only this movement because you're
into adopting bunnies and stray cats we
call this diversity but yeah for me for
three years now I've been asking people
so what do you want to do what are you
willing to do to make a positive change
the future the vegan movement in the
next five years right I've been asked
that question for three years now so I'm
running out of time before those
are up and I have to face up the reality
that although you know the profound
fissures within veganism that exist they
should create addressed in debate I
don't even have people to debate with
still this day only one person ever
collabed collaborated with me on the
book review videos that was not vegan I
still don't even have people who are
looking at me across those fissures
interested in debating these things for
the future that even I don't even have
people were interested cooperate me on
the purely ideal ideal and idealistic
side of the equation talking about the
ideas talking about the philosophy and
the political philosophy in the way
forward this one I don't even have
collaborators of that kind much less do
I have five or ten collaborators to get
organized make a movement make something
happen in the real world so that's a
failure and now me and my girlfriend
party of two
we've got to look forward to and asking
ourselves the question should we enroll
in college learn how to bake bread
should we get involved in food services
should we get involved in feeding vegans
and feeding people to be vegan try to
make something boss that way as a
platform for fish
evolution